# Epic / Very High Level User Story

## Step 1: Describe The Problem We're Here to Solve

(more detail: https://www.atlassian.com/agile/project-management/user-stories)

As a ... < General description of the type of user this would benefit. Builds a shared understanding of and empathy for the need.>

I want to ... < What is the high-level goal we're trying to achieve here? What's the _intent_ here?
This should not be a description of a particular wished-for solution – to quote Atlassian
"if you’re describing any part of the UI and not what the user goal is, you're missing the point.">

so that... < Context. How does the immediate desire to do something fit into the bigger picture?
What’s the overall benefit we’re trying to achieve? What is the big problem that needs solving?>

## Step 2: The Elevator Pitch & Refinement

### Elevator Pitch

(more information: https://agilewarrior.wordpress.com/2010/11/06/the-agile-inception-deck/)

A feature-oriented proposal for a solution in user-understandable language (and related artifacts like mockups, if those might be helpful), generated by Developers & Metadata specialists based on the problem description, for
approval by Product Owner & relevant stakeholders. Should address the following:

* What are we doing?

* What are we NOT doing?

* What resources will be needed to implement this?

### Refinement

(as much or as little as makes sense for the pitch)

##### Metadata

What metadata is involved? What is changing in terms of metadata tracked for specific entities? Links to documentation etc.

#### Backend

Things like whiteboard sketches of architectural changes, Rails model component interactions, pictures of the outcome of event storm sessions, etc

#### Frontend

Things like wireframes, sketches of potential UI approaches, etc

## Step 3: Tickets

Links to specific, achievable, estimable tickets with clear "Done" criteria, describing the work needed to implement the solution outlined above. By the time these are added to this document, they should be in a state ready for estimation.
